---
layout: post
title: C Pointer
subtitle: Make It Clear and Logical
tags:
  - draft
comments: false
published: false
---


# Introduction

The pointer in C is powerful but confusing. We can understand pointer better if we
think it logically and use it concisely. This document is trying to
bridge the gap between logic thinking and concise usage.


# Address and Content of Memory

Memory is used to store data, address, and code.

* data: variable, array, structure, string, ...
* address: pointer variable which points to data, function pointer which points to a function.
* code: function


## Data - Variable

If ``v`` is a normal variable, ``&v`` is the address of v and ``v`` is the content of v.
* ``&v`` is fixed.
* ``v`` is changeable.
* It's obvious that ``&v`` and ``v`` are different.
* It's confusng that ``v`` is the name of a variable and its content.

## Data - Array

If a[i] is a variable in an array ``a[]``, ``&a[i]`` is the address of a[i] and ``a[i]`` is the content of a[i].
* ``a[i]`` is a variable. ``&a[i]`` is its address, and ``a[i]`` is its content.
* ``a`` is also the address of a[0], so ``a`` and ``&a[0]`` can be used interchangeably.
* However, it is convenient but confusing if we use ``a`` instead of ``&a[0]``. 
* When coding, there is a trade-off between ``a`` and ``&a[]``
  - ``&a[]``: logical, easy to understand
  - ``a``: simple, compact, and concise, but confusing

  
## Code - Function

If ``f()`` is a function, ``&f`` is the address of f(), and the content of f() is code.
* It's confusing that both `f` and ``&f`` are the address of f().



## Address - Pointer

If ``p`` is a pointer variable, ``&p`` is the address of p and ``p`` is the content of p.

* both a normal variable and a pointer variable are variables.
* the difference between a normal variable ``v`` and a pointer variable ``p`` is that ``p`` needs a target.
* ``p`` is the address of the target. ``*p`` is the content of the target
* ``&p`` is fixed, ``p`` is changeable, and ``*p`` is changeable.

# Priority of Operators

List of operators in assending order.
* ``()`` ``[]`` ``.`` ``->``
* ``*`` ``&`` ``++`` ``--``
* ``+`` ``-``
* ``=`` ``+=`` ``-=``


# Data Type


# Arithematics of Pointers




# Target of a Pointer

the target of a pointer could be NULL, a narmal variable, a pointer varialbe, a function, an array, a structure, or a string.


## Point to Nothing

* declaration

```
char *p; // p is a pointer variable and data type of *p is integer
```

* assignment

```
p = NULL; // point to nothing, *p can't be used.

```

* usage

```
*p can't be used when p is NULL.
```

## Point to a Variable

* declaration

```
char v, *p; // v is a char variable, and p is a pointer to a char
```

* assignment

```
p = &v; // p stores the address of v

```

* usage



```
*p = '0'; // use *p to indirect access v. v is now set to '0' via *p
```


# Recap

